CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

Contributions are welcome, and they are greatly appreciated! Every little bit
helps, and credit will always be given.

You can contribute in many ways:

## Types of Contributions

### Report Bugs

Report bugs at https://github.com/omnisci/sqlalchemy-omnisci/issues.

If you are reporting a bug, please include:

* Your operating system name and version.
* Any details about your local setup that might be helpful in troubleshooting.
* Detailed steps to reproduce the bug.

### Fix Bugs

Look through the GitHub issues for bugs. Anything tagged with "bug" and "help
wanted" is open to whoever wants to implement it.

### Implement Features

Look through the GitHub issues for features. Anything tagged with "enhancement"
and "help wanted" is open to whoever wants to implement it.

### Write Documentation

SQLAlchemy OmniSci could always use more documentation, whether as part of the
official **SQLAlchemy OmniSci** docs, in docstrings, or even on the web in blog posts,
articles, and such.

### Submit Feedback

The best way to send feedback is to file an issue at https://github.com/omnisci/sqlalchemy-omnisci/issues.

If you are proposing a feature:

* Explain in detail how it would work.
* Keep the scope as narrow as possible, to make it easier to implement.
* Remember that this is a volunteer-driven project, and that contributions
  are welcome :)

### Get Started!

Ready to contribute? Here's how to set up `sqlalchemy-omnisci` for local development.

1. Fork the `sqlalchemy-omnisci` repo on GitHub.
2. Clone your fork locally::
```sh
    $ git clone git@github.com:your_name_here/sqlalchemy-omnisci.git
```
1. Create a conda environment and set up your fork for local development::
```sh
    $ cd sqlalchemy-omnisci/
    $ conda env create --file environment.yaml
    $ conda activate sqla-omnisci
    $ make develop
```
4. Create a branch for local development::
```sh
    $ git checkout -b name-of-your-bugfix-or-feature
```
   Now you can make your changes locally.

5. Commit your changes and push your branch to GitHub (this runs pre-commit hooks automatically)::
```
    $ git add .
    $ git commit -m "Your detailed description of your changes."
    $ git push origin name-of-your-bugfix-or-feature
```
6. Submit a pull request through the GitHub website.

## Pull Request Guidelines

Before you submit a pull request, check that it meets these guidelines:

1. The pull request should include tests.
2. If the pull request adds functionality, the docs should be updated. Put
   your new functionality into a function with a docstring, and add the
   feature to the list in README.md.


## Development

This section aims to explain the structure of the project an how to
prepare your development environment locally.

### Structure for the project

The basic structure of the project follows the specification provided by **SQLAlchemy**. You can check the specification out in the
[official documentation](https://github.com/sqlalchemy/sqlalchemy/blob/master/README.dialects.rst).

Additionally, there are some folders and files that help the development process, which are:

* `/docker/`, that includes the files and scripts used for tests and CI.
* `/environment.yaml`, a conda environment file used to create the environment for development.
* `/.pre-commit-config.yaml`, that is used for the installation of `git` pre-commit hooks.
* `/Makefile`, that groups main useful commands for development, for example, **docker-compose** commands and tests.

This is not an exhaustive list of useful files for development,
instead, it mentions some files that you should keep in mind
that can help you here.


### Tests

Tests were created using `pytest`. One specific test, `/tests/,test_suite.py`
uses `sqlalchemy.testing.suite`, a convinient way to re-use the
`sqlalchemy` tests designed for any dialect. For more information
about that, check it out in its
[official documentation](https://github.com/sqlalchemy/sqlalchemy/blob/master/README.unittests.rst)

For the tests here, it is important to have **OmniSci** server running.
It will create a new database for tests called `sqla_testing`.

A common workflow for unit testing could be described as follows:

```sh
# in a terminal (let's call it terminal 1)
make docker-omnisci-start
```

```sh
# in anoter terminal (let's call it terminal 2)
make run-tests
```

If you are adding a new feature or changing an existent feature and
you want to create a new test file at `/tests/`, check how
`/tests/test_compiler.py` and `/tests/test_connection.py` implement
the tests.

**Tip: the class used for testing should inherit
`sqlalchemy.testing.fixtures.TestBase`!**

### Apache Superset connector

Additionally, this repository provides a connector module for
**OmniSci** on **Apache Superset**, available at `/docker/superset-omnisci.py`.

If you are doing the process manually, copy `/docker/superset-omnisci.py`
into the engine folder inside the **Apache Superset** directory
(e.g. `superset/db_engine_specs/`) and rename it to `omnisci.py`. For more information, check `/docker/setup-superset.sh` out to see the steps used to prepare the **Apache Superset** with the **OmniSci** connector for tests on docker.

If you want to use the docker container provided here, run:

```sh
$ make docker-superset-start
```

This command should build the image for the container and will prepare
everything needed to run the **Apache Superset** with the **OmniSci** connector.

To try it, open your web browser and enter the following
**URL**: `localhost:8080`.

**NOTE**: Due dependencies conflict with **apache-arrow**, the
**Apache Superset** version recommended is `1.1.0`.

To connect the **Apache Superset** instance to your
**OmniSci** server, assuming you are running both using their respective `make` targets
(`make docker-superset-start` and `make docker-omnisci-start`),
do:

- click on `Data/Databases` menu.
- in the **Databases** page, click on the `+ DATABASE` button.
- in the **Add database** popup window, add a new database
with the following **URI**: `omnisci://admin:HyperInteractive@omniscidb:6274/omnisci?protocol=binary`.

For debugging purpose, you can connect to the **Apache Superset** container using:

```sh
$ make docker-superset-bash
```

If you need another instance of **Apache Superset** for testing/debugging
purpose, run:

´´´sh
flask run -p 5000 --with-threads --reload --debugger --host=0.0.0.0
´´´

To try it, open your web browser and enter the following **URL**: `localhost:5000`

Use the port 5000 because it is already exposed by **docker-compose**.

**NOTE:** **Apache Superset** listening on port 8080 doens't work right now
but if you run it using the command above it should work. The problem is
being investigated.


## Deploying

A reminder for the maintainers on how to deploy.
Make sure all your changes are committed (including an entry in HISTORY.md).

Then run:

**TBD**

Commit message:

Add release workflow (#11)
* Added release initial release workflow

* Added release initial release workflow

* Updating the documentation

* Fix version code

* Fix version code

* Fix version code

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

Contributions are welcome, and they are greatly appreciated! Every little bit
helps, and credit will always be given.

You can contribute in many ways:

## Types of Contributions

### Report Bugs

Report bugs at https://github.com/omnisci/sqlalchemy-omnisci/issues.

If you are reporting a bug, please include:

* Your operating system name and version.
* Any details about your local setup that might be helpful in troubleshooting.
* Detailed steps to reproduce the bug.

### Fix Bugs

Look through the GitHub issues for bugs. Anything tagged with "bug" and "help
wanted" is open to whoever wants to implement it.

### Implement Features

Look through the GitHub issues for features. Anything tagged with "enhancement"
and "help wanted" is open to whoever wants to implement it.

### Write Documentation

SQLAlchemy OmniSci could always use more documentation, whether as part of the
official **SQLAlchemy OmniSci** docs, in docstrings, or even on the web in blog posts,
articles, and such.

### Submit Feedback

The best way to send feedback is to file an issue at https://github.com/omnisci/sqlalchemy-omnisci/issues.

If you are proposing a feature:

* Explain in detail how it would work.
* Keep the scope as narrow as possible, to make it easier to implement.
* Remember that this is a volunteer-driven project, and that contributions
  are welcome :)

### Get Started!

Ready to contribute? Here's how to set up `sqlalchemy-omnisci` for local development.

1. Fork the `sqlalchemy-omnisci` repo on GitHub.
2. Clone your fork locally::
```sh
    $ git clone git@github.com:your_name_here/sqlalchemy-omnisci.git
```
1. Create a conda environment and set up your fork for local development::
```sh
    $ cd sqlalchemy-omnisci/
    $ conda env create --file environment.yaml
    $ conda activate sqla-omnisci
    $ make develop
```
4. Create a branch for local development::
```sh
    $ git checkout -b name-of-your-bugfix-or-feature
```
   Now you can make your changes locally.

5. Commit your changes and push your branch to GitHub (this runs pre-commit hooks automatically)::
```
    $ git add .
    $ git commit -m "Your detailed description of your changes."
    $ git push origin name-of-your-bugfix-or-feature
```
6. Submit a pull request through the GitHub website.

## Pull Request Guidelines

Before you submit a pull request, check that it meets these guidelines:

1. The pull request should include tests.
2. If the pull request adds functionality, the docs should be updated. Put
   your new functionality into a function with a docstring, and add the
   feature to the list in README.md.


## Development

This section aims to explain the structure of the project an how to
prepare your development environment locally.

### Structure for the project

The basic structure of the project follows the specification provided by **SQLAlchemy**. You can check the specification out in the
[official documentation](https://github.com/sqlalchemy/sqlalchemy/blob/master/README.dialects.rst).

Additionally, there are some folders and files that help the development process, which are:

* `/docker/`, that includes the files and scripts used for tests and CI.
* `/environment.yaml`, a conda environment file used to create the environment for development.
* `/.pre-commit-config.yaml`, that is used for the installation of `git` pre-commit hooks.
* `/Makefile`, that groups main useful commands for development, for example, **docker-compose** commands and tests.

This is not an exhaustive list of useful files for development,
instead, it mentions some files that you should keep in mind
that can help you here.


### Tests

Tests were created using `pytest`. One specific test, `/tests/,test_suite.py`
uses `sqlalchemy.testing.suite`, a convinient way to re-use the
`sqlalchemy` tests designed for any dialect. For more information
about that, check it out in its
[official documentation](https://github.com/sqlalchemy/sqlalchemy/blob/master/README.unittests.rst)

For the tests here, it is important to have **OmniSci** server running.
It will create a new database for tests called `sqla_testing`.

A common workflow for unit testing could be described as follows:

```sh
# in a terminal (let's call it terminal 1)
make docker-omnisci-start
```

```sh
# in anoter terminal (let's call it terminal 2)
make run-tests
```

If you are adding a new feature or changing an existent feature and
you want to create a new test file at `/tests/`, check how
`/tests/test_compiler.py` and `/tests/test_connection.py` implement
the tests.

**Tip: the class used for testing should inherit
`sqlalchemy.testing.fixtures.TestBase`!**

### Apache Superset connector

Additionally, this repository provides a connector module for
**OmniSci** on **Apache Superset**, available at `/docker/superset-omnisci.py`.

If you are doing the process manually, copy `/docker/superset-omnisci.py`
into the engine folder inside the **Apache Superset** directory
(e.g. `superset/db_engine_specs/`) and rename it to `omnisci.py`. For more information, check `/docker/setup-superset.sh` out to see the steps used to prepare the **Apache Superset** with the **OmniSci** connector for tests on docker.

If you want to use the docker container provided here, run:

```sh
$ make docker-superset-start
```

This command should build the image for the container and will prepare
everything needed to run the **Apache Superset** with the **OmniSci** connector.

To try it, open your web browser and enter the following
**URL**: `localhost:8080`.

**NOTE**: Due dependencies conflict with **apache-arrow**, the
**Apache Superset** version recommended is `1.1.0`.

To connect the **Apache Superset** instance to your
**OmniSci** server, assuming you are running both using their respective `make` targets
(`make docker-superset-start` and `make docker-omnisci-start`),
do:

- click on `Data/Databases` menu.
- in the **Databases** page, click on the `+ DATABASE` button.
- in the **Add database** popup window, add a new database
with the following **URI**: `omnisci://admin:HyperInteractive@omniscidb:6274/omnisci?protocol=binary`.

For debugging purpose, you can connect to the **Apache Superset** container using:

```sh
$ make docker-superset-bash
```

If you need another instance of **Apache Superset** for testing/debugging
purpose, run:

´´´sh
flask run -p 5000 --with-threads --reload --debugger --host=0.0.0.0
´´´

To try it, open your web browser and enter the following **URL**: `localhost:5000`

Use the port 5000 because it is already exposed by **docker-compose**.

**NOTE:** **Apache Superset** listening on port 8080 doens't work right now
but if you run it using the command above it should work. The problem is
being investigated.


## Releasing

The releasing is based on the GitHub tag. So all you need to do is create a
tag and push it. The CI is responsible for the GitHub release creation
and PyPi publishing.

For example, if you want to create a release for the version `0.0.1`:

```sh
$ git tag 0.0.1
$ git push upstream --tags
```
